---
# the default layout is 'page'
icon: fas fa-info-circle
order: 4
---

# NISHAL RAI | F5-CTS-ASM | F5-201
**nishalrai2056@gmail.com**<br>
**Kathmandu, Nepal**

## PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
As an application security professional with expertise in F5 BIG-IP (ASM, LTM, DNS), NGINX Plus, and Windows services, I specialize in enhancing performance and security for public services. My experience includes containerization, microservices architecture, vulnerability mitigation, and implementing robust network designs. With proficiency in Python, Bash, and open-source tools like Grafana, Prometheus, and Zabbix, I deliver comprehensive solutions and training while collaborating with cross-functional teams to ensure secure, resilient systems.

### SKILLS
- **Tools & Technology**: F5 BIG-IP (ASM, DNS, APM, AFM, LTM), GenieATM, NGINX+, K8s, Docker, Burpsuite, Nmap, Nuclei, Packet Analysis, Windows IIS server, CCNA (Routing & Switching)
- **Programming Language**: Java, Python
- **Monitoring Tool**: Grafana, Prometheus, Wazuh, Zabbix
- **Security Framework**: NIST CSF, PCI DSS
- **Databases**: MySQL, PostgresSQL
- **Cloud Platforms**: AWS, Azure

<br>

## WORK HISTORY

**Team Lead Security Solution Engineer | Digital Network Solution Pvt. Ltd. - Kathmandu, Bagmati** `11/2023 - Current`  
- Lead and oversee the deployment and support of F5 BIG-IP WAF and BIG-IQ, ensuring successful implementation across multiple institutions.
- Generate support reports, conduct Root Cause Analysis (RCA), and recommend improvements based on findings.
- Mentor team members, provide technical expertise, and ensure adherence to company policies and security best practices.
- Deliver comprehensive training on application security, infrastructure optimization, and advanced threat mitigation strategies
- Conduct research and development `(R&D)` on emerging vulnerabilities and security technologies, aligning findings with client environments to implement preemptive mitigation strategies 

<br>

**Associate Security Solution Engineer | Digital Network Solution Pvt. Ltd. - Kathmandu, Bagmati**`06/2021 - 10/2023`
-  Deployed and supported F5 BIG-IP (ASM, LTM, APM, AFM & DNS) and F5 BIG-IQ, including training users.
-  Assisted in deploying NGINX Plus services, including Instance Manager, API Gateway, and NGINX App Protect WAF.
-  Skilled in using open-source monitoring tools like Grafana, Prometheus, elasticsearch, Kibana, Wazuh and Nagios for network troubleshooting and security.
-  Experienced with containerization technologies such as Docker and Kubernetes, and microservices architecture.
-  Researched emerging threats and documented PoCs, deployment scenarios, and support reports.
-  Coordinated inter-departmental tasks and understood cloud and virtualization concepts.

<br>

**IT Support & NOC | Dish Home Media Network - Karyabinayak, Kathmandu** `02/2021 – 05/2021`
- Troubleshooting internet issues of the staff's computer.
- Provide quick support to other departments in case of technical issues.
- Look over the ticket generated by the client and resolve them.
- Troubleshoot the system and network issues.</li>
- Monitor the network using various NMS tools - Zabbix and Nagios.


## EDUCATION

**Islington College | London Metropolitan University – Kathmandu `03 /2022`**<br>	
BSc (Hons) Computer Networking and & IT Security: Cyber Security

**Vishwa Adarsha College – Itahari `04/ 2018`**<br>
Higher Secondary: Science


## CERTIFICATIONS
- AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate (SAA-C03)
- F5 Certified Technology Specialist in ASM (F5-CTS-ASM)
- F5 TMOS Administration (F5-201)
- F5 Certified Application Delivery Fundamentals
- (ISC)2 Certified in Cybersecurity
- Microsoft Certified: Azure Fundamentals


## LINKS
- https://nishalrai.com.np
- https://medium.com/@nitratic
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/nishalrai/
- https://github.com/nishalrai



